packages/stencil-component/src/components/read-along-component/readme.md, before:

# my-component



<!-- Auto Generated Below -->


## Properties

| Property          | Attribute           | Description                                                                                            | Type                         | Default        |
| ----------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------- | -------------- |
| `alignment`       | `alignment`         | The alignment as SMIL                                                                                  | `string`                     | `undefined`    |
| `audio`           | `audio`             | The audio file                                                                                         | `string`                     | `undefined`    |
| `cssUrl`          | `css-url`           | Optional custom Stylesheet to override defaults                                                        | `string`                     | `undefined`    |
| `language`        | `language`          | Language  of the interface. In 639-3 code Options are - "eng" for English - "fra" for French           | `"eng" \| "fra"`             | `'eng'`        |
| `mode`            | `mode`              | Choose mode of ReadAlong - either view (default) or edit                                               | `"EDIT" \| "VIEW"`           | `"VIEW"`       |
| `pageScrolling`   | `page-scrolling`    | Toggles the page scrolling from horizontal to vertical. Defaults to horizontal                         | `"horizontal" \| "vertical"` | `"horizontal"` |
| `svgOverlay`      | `svg-overlay`       | Overlay This is an SVG overlay to place over the progress bar                                          | `string`                     | `undefined`    |
| `text`            | `text`              | The text as TEI                                                                                        | `string`                     | `undefined`    |
| `theme`           | `theme`             | Theme to use: ['light', 'dark'] defaults to 'dark'                                                     | `string`                     | `'light'`      |
| `useAssetsFolder` | `use-assets-folder` | Toggle the use of assets folder for resolving urls. Defaults to on to maintain backwards compatibility | `boolean`                    | `true`         |


## Methods

### `changeTheme() => Promise<void>`

Change theme

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`




----------------------------------------------

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*

Commit message:

- new feature: auto pause between transition, a fix for when audio is ahead of page transition - new feature: ability to set scroll behavior - new feature: ability to set page transition time

packages/stencil-component/src/components/read-along-component/readme.md, after:

# my-component



<!-- Auto Generated Below -->


## Properties

| Property             | Attribute                | Description                                                                                            | Type            | Default     |
|----------------------|--------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|-------------|
| `alignment`          | `alignment`              | The alignment as SMIL                                                                                  | `string`        | `undefined` |
| `audio`              | `audio`                  | The audio file                                                                                         | `string`        | `undefined` |
| `autoPauseEndOfPage` | `auto-pause-end-of-page` | Pause when at the end of a page                                                                        | `boolean`       | `false`     |
| `cssUrl`             | `css-url`                | Optional custom Stylesheet to override defaults                                                        | `string`        | `undefined` |
| `language`           | `language`               | Language  of the interface. In 639-3 code Options are - "eng" for English - "fra" for French           | `"eng" \        | "fra"`      | `'eng'`        |
| `mode`               | `mode`                   | Choose mode of ReadAlong - either view (default) or edit                                               | `"EDIT" \       | "VIEW"`     | `"VIEW"`       |
| `pageScrolling`      | `page-scrolling`         | Toggles the page scrolling from horizontal to vertical. Defaults to horizontal                         | `"horizontal" \ | "vertical"` | `"horizontal"` |
| `scrollBehavior`     | `scroll-behavior`        |                                                                                                        | `"auto" \       | "smooth"`   | `"smooth"`     |
| `svgOverlay`         | `svg-overlay`            | Overlay This is an SVG overlay to place over the progress bar                                          | `string`        | `undefined` |
| `text`               | `text`                   | The text as TEI                                                                                        | `string`        | `undefined` |
| `theme`              | `theme`                  | Theme to use: ['light', 'dark'] defaults to 'dark'                                                     | `string`        | `'light'`   |
| `timeoutAtEndOfPage` | `timeout-at-end-of-page` | Pause timeout when at the end of a page                                                                | `number`        | `0`         |
| `useAssetsFolder`    | `use-assets-folder`      | Toggle the use of assets folder for resolving urls. Defaults to on to maintain backwards compatibility | `boolean`       | `true`      |


## Methods

### `changeTheme() => Promise<void>`

Change theme

#### Returns

Type: `Promise<void>`




----------------------------------------------

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*
