packages/stencil-component/readme.md, before:

![Built With Stencil](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Built%20With%20Stencil-16161d.svg?logo=data%3Aimage%2Fsvg%2Bxml%3Bbase64%2CPD94bWwgdmVyc2lvbj0iMS4wIiBlbmNvZGluZz0idXRmLTgiPz4KPCEtLSBHZW5lcmF0b3I6IEFkb2JlIElsbHVzdHJhdG9yIDE5LjIuMSwgU1ZHIEV4cG9ydCBQbHVnLUluIC4gU1ZHIFZlcnNpb246IDYuMDAgQnVpbGQgMCkgIC0tPgo8c3ZnIHZlcnNpb249IjEuMSIgaWQ9IkxheWVyXzEiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyIgeG1sbnM6eGxpbms9Imh0dHA6Ly93d3cudzMub3JnLzE5OTkveGxpbmsiIHg9IjBweCIgeT0iMHB4IgoJIHZpZXdCb3g9IjAgMCA1MTIgNTEyIiBzdHlsZT0iZW5hYmxlLWJhY2tncm91bmQ6bmV3IDAgMCA1MTIgNTEyOyIgeG1sOnNwYWNlPSJwcmVzZXJ2ZSI%2BCjxzdHlsZSB0eXBlPSJ0ZXh0L2NzcyI%2BCgkuc3Qwe2ZpbGw6I0ZGRkZGRjt9Cjwvc3R5bGU%2BCjxwYXRoIGNsYXNzPSJzdDAiIGQ9Ik00MjQuNywzNzMuOWMwLDM3LjYtNTUuMSw2OC42LTkyLjcsNjguNkgxODAuNGMtMzcuOSwwLTkyLjctMzAuNy05Mi43LTY4LjZ2LTMuNmgzMzYuOVYzNzMuOXoiLz4KPHBhdGggY2xhc3M9InN0MCIgZD0iTTQyNC43LDI5Mi4xSDE4MC40Yy0zNy42LDAtOTIuNy0zMS05Mi43LTY4LjZ2LTMuNkgzMzJjMzcuNiwwLDkyLjcsMzEsOTIuNyw2OC42VjI5Mi4xeiIvPgo8cGF0aCBjbGFzcz0ic3QwIiBkPSJNNDI0LjcsMTQxLjdIODcuN3YtMy42YzAtMzcuNiw1NC44LTY4LjYsOTIuNy02OC42SDMzMmMzNy45LDAsOTIuNywzMC43LDkyLjcsNjguNlYxNDEuN3oiLz4KPC9zdmc%2BCg%3D%3D&colorA=16161d&style=flat-square)

# Read-Along Web Component

This is a web component for embedding read-along, audio/text aligned content in your website or hybrid app.

## Basic use

The simplest way to use the web component is to generate a read along using [ReadAlongs Studio](https://github.com/ReadAlongs/Studio). Its `align` command will output a folder containing the read-along XML file, the other assets, and a minimal HTML index page, which you can view with `python -m http.server`, for example.

The rest of this readme is intended for users who want to customize their readalongs or contribute to the development of this web component.

## Installation

For now, just clone the repo, make sure you have node 6+, and run `npm install` from the project root. Then you can
run `npm start` and a minimal website containing only the webcomponent will be served at `localhost:3333`. Any changes
you make to `/src` will be automatically shown in the browser.

## Properties

| Property          | Attribute           | Description                                                                                            | Type                         | Default        |
| ----------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------- | -------------- |
| `alignment`       | `alignment`         | The alignment as SMIL                                                                                  | `string`                     | `undefined`    |
| `audio`           | `audio`             | The audio file                                                                                         | `string`                     | `undefined`    |
| `cssUrl`          | `css-url`           | Optional custom Stylesheet to override defaults                                                        | `string`                     | `undefined`    |
| `language`        | `language`          | Language  of the interface. In 639-3 code Options are - "eng" for English - "fra" for French           | `"eng" \| "fra"`             | `'eng'`        |
| `pageScrolling`   | `page-scrolling`    | Toggles the page scrolling from horizontal to vertical. Defaults to horizontal                         | `"horizontal" \| "vertical"` | `"horizontal"` |
| `svgOverlay`      | `svg-overlay`       | Overlay This is an SVG overlay to place over the progress bar                                          | `string`                     | `undefined`    |
| `text`            | `text`              | The text as TEI                                                                                        | `string`                     | `undefined`    |
| `theme`           | `theme`             | Theme to use: ['light', 'dark'] defaults to 'dark'                                                     | `string`                     | `'light'`      |
| `useAssetsFolder` | `use-assets-folder` | Toggle the use of assets folder for resolving image urls. Defaults to 'true' for backwards compatibility   | `boolean`              | `true`         |


#### IMAGES

You have three options:

* put images in "assets/" and provide relative link
* provide a full path
* put it in a custom relative folder and make sure to add `use-assets-folder="false"` attribute to the read-long
  component

Note that images are normally inserted in a read-along by specifying them in the `config.json` file provided to `readalongs align`, which will then attempt to generate and populate the assets folder automatically.
See the [readalongs CLI user guide](https://readalong-studio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cli-guide.html#adding-titles-images-and-do-not-align-segments-via-the-config-json-file) for details.

## Test with your site

You can either modify the `/src/index.html` or after running `npm start` you can copy out the `www/build` folder and add
the following script import in your own `index.html` page:

```html 
  <script type="module" src="https://unpkg.com/@roedoejet/readalong@^0.1.6/dist/read-along/read-along.esm.js"></script>
  <script nomodule src="https://unpkg.com/@roedoejet/readalong@^0.1.6/dist/read-along/read-along.js"></script>
```

Then, you can add as many read-along components to your page as you like simply by adding `<read-along></read-along>`
elements with arguments for where to find your text, alignments and audio file. These files can be generated
using _________ service located here: ____________.

```html
<read-along text="assets/s2.xml" alignment="assets/s2.smil" audio="assets/s2.wav"
            css-url="assets/custom.css" use-assets-folder="true"></read-along>
```

## Loading as a single file

By default, Stencil (the tool used to build this web component) uses lazy loading. However, some use cases for this web component might involve running the component as a single file, without access to the internet. A single-file script of this web component is therefore made available at https://unpkg.com/@roedoejet/readalong@^0.1.6/dist/bundle.js although we recommend using the default imports using the unpkg content delivery network (cdn) described above.

## Theming

There are two themes out-of-the-box: `light` and `dark`. You set them as a property on the `<read-along></read-along>`
web component. If you want to add your own theme, it's as easy as adding your colour palette to the `$ui-themes`
variable in `src/components/read-along-component/scss/utilities/_colors.scss`. Note you will have to rebuild the web
component from source to do this, or submit your theme as a pull-request!

```scss
$ui-themes: (
  light: (
    primary: $white,
    secondary: darken($white, 50%),
    accent: darken($white, 60%),
    text: $black,
    text--secondary: $white,
    text--accent: $white,
  ),
  dark: (
    primary: lighten($black, 30%),
    secondary: darken($white, 35%),
    accent: $white,
    text: $white,
    text--secondary: $white,
    text--accent: $black
  )
);
```

## Slots

Slots allow you to add custom html into specific "slots" within the web component. For example, to add an optional
header to the `<read-along></read-along` component, you would write:

```html

<read-along>
  <span slot="read-along-header">Hello World!</span>
</read-along>
```

| Slot                    | Description           | Suggested Element |
| ----------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------- |
| `read-along-header`     | The read along header | `span`              |
| `read-along-subheader`  | Subheader (ie authors)| `span`              |

## Page layout

By default, the pages are two column layout with image on the left and text on the left. You force any page to one
column layout by setting the class of the page to ```one-column-layout-page```

```xml

<div type="page" class="one-column-layout-page">
  ...
</div>
```

The default layout is auto adjust without restrictions. To force a 40-60 split between the image and text use
the ```two-column-layout-page``` class for the page.

```xml

<div type="page" class="two-column-layout-page">
  ...
</div>
```
### Hide page number

You can hide the page number for any page by specifying the class ```hide-page-counter```.

## Assets folder

By defaults the image assets will be resolved to ```.\assets\``` relative to the index.html file. You can
override this behaviour by using this attribute on the component ```use-assets-folder="false"```. The web component will
not longer resolve url to the **assets** folder when this attribute is present.

## CSS customization

You can override the default style of the component. This option is best used anyone does not want to clone this project
and modify only the UI. Use the web inspector of your browser to find the classes you wish to override.

```css
/* change the font size and color of the text */
.sentence__word.theme--light {
  color: #64003c;
  font-size: 1.8rem;
}

/* change the background color of the text being read */
.sentence__word.theme--light.reading {
  background-color: #64003c;
}
```

Here is a list of classes you want to override:

* .sentence__word.theme--light
* .sentence__word.theme--light.reading
* .sentence__text.theme--light
* .sentence__translation
* .sentence
* .paragraph
* .page__container.theme--light (to set page background)

## XML customizations

You can add classes to the xml tags in the text XML file. When coupled with the custom css, it will produce most of the
visual effect you want in your read along. e.g. ``` <s class="sentence__translation ">```

### Built-in translation class

The default css class provided for translations should be added to the XML ```<s>``` tag. Here is a sample:

```xml

<p id="t0b0d1p0">
  <s id="t0b0d1p0s0">
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w0">...</w>
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w1">...</w>
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w2">...</w>
  </s>
  <s id="t0b0d1p0s1" class="sentence__translation">This is a translation</s>
</p>
```

The default style:

```css
     .sentence__translation {
        color: #777;
        font-style: italic;
        font-size: 95%;
      }
```

## Visual alignment

You can force the visual alignment of sentences within a paragraph by adding ``` class="visually_aligned"``` to
the ```<p>``` tag of xml. Here is a sample

```xml

<p id="t0b0d1p0" class="visually_aligned">
  <s id="t0b0d1p0s0">
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w0">...</w>
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w1">...</w>
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w2">...</w>
  </s>
  <s id="t0b0d1p0s1" class="sentence__translation ">This is a translation</s>
</p>
```

**MIND THE GAP**:
When you visually align a paragraph please triple check the spacing and punctuation between elements because the visual
alignment is white-space sensitive

**SIDE EFFECT**: This feature disables auto-wrapping of the words in the paragraph

## For developers of the component

We use Cypress (instead of Jest+Puppeteer) to do integration/end-to-end testing.

### How to run the tests

First, start the test servers (yes, plural!), by using this command:

    npm run test-servers

If you are on a Windows machine, the command above will not work if you do not have bash setup.

Run each of the following in a separate command prompt:

    npm run start
    
    npm run serve-test-data

Then you can run test **interactively** using the following command:

    npx cypress open

Or run all tests automatically using this command:

    npx cypress run

### Interactively testing your local copy

If you want to use your local copy of the Web Component instead of the version published at unpkg, change the two `script` lines in your HTML and set the module URL to your localhost.
See for example the unit testing file [test-data/ej-fra/index.html](test-data/ej-fra/index.html), which assumes this Stencil component is being served on port 3333, the default when running locally.

Commit message:

- new feature: auto pause between transition, a fix for when audio is ahead of page transition - new feature: ability to set scroll behavior - new feature: ability to set page transition time

packages/stencil-component/readme.md, after:

![Built With Stencil](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Built%20With%20Stencil-16161d.svg?logo=data%3Aimage%2Fsvg%2Bxml%3Bbase64%2CPD94bWwgdmVyc2lvbj0iMS4wIiBlbmNvZGluZz0idXRmLTgiPz4KPCEtLSBHZW5lcmF0b3I6IEFkb2JlIElsbHVzdHJhdG9yIDE5LjIuMSwgU1ZHIEV4cG9ydCBQbHVnLUluIC4gU1ZHIFZlcnNpb246IDYuMDAgQnVpbGQgMCkgIC0tPgo8c3ZnIHZlcnNpb249IjEuMSIgaWQ9IkxheWVyXzEiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyIgeG1sbnM6eGxpbms9Imh0dHA6Ly93d3cudzMub3JnLzE5OTkveGxpbmsiIHg9IjBweCIgeT0iMHB4IgoJIHZpZXdCb3g9IjAgMCA1MTIgNTEyIiBzdHlsZT0iZW5hYmxlLWJhY2tncm91bmQ6bmV3IDAgMCA1MTIgNTEyOyIgeG1sOnNwYWNlPSJwcmVzZXJ2ZSI%2BCjxzdHlsZSB0eXBlPSJ0ZXh0L2NzcyI%2BCgkuc3Qwe2ZpbGw6I0ZGRkZGRjt9Cjwvc3R5bGU%2BCjxwYXRoIGNsYXNzPSJzdDAiIGQ9Ik00MjQuNywzNzMuOWMwLDM3LjYtNTUuMSw2OC42LTkyLjcsNjguNkgxODAuNGMtMzcuOSwwLTkyLjctMzAuNy05Mi43LTY4LjZ2LTMuNmgzMzYuOVYzNzMuOXoiLz4KPHBhdGggY2xhc3M9InN0MCIgZD0iTTQyNC43LDI5Mi4xSDE4MC40Yy0zNy42LDAtOTIuNy0zMS05Mi43LTY4LjZ2LTMuNkgzMzJjMzcuNiwwLDkyLjcsMzEsOTIuNyw2OC42VjI5Mi4xeiIvPgo8cGF0aCBjbGFzcz0ic3QwIiBkPSJNNDI0LjcsMTQxLjdIODcuN3YtMy42YzAtMzcuNiw1NC44LTY4LjYsOTIuNy02OC42SDMzMmMzNy45LDAsOTIuNywzMC43LDkyLjcsNjguNlYxNDEuN3oiLz4KPC9zdmc%2BCg%3D%3D&colorA=16161d&style=flat-square)

# Read-Along Web Component

This is a web component for embedding read-along, audio/text aligned content in your website or hybrid app.

## Basic use

The simplest way to use the web component is to generate a read along using [ReadAlongs Studio](https://github.com/ReadAlongs/Studio). Its `align` command will output a folder containing the read-along XML file, the other assets, and a minimal HTML index page, which you can view with `python -m http.server`, for example.

The rest of this readme is intended for users who want to customize their readalongs or contribute to the development of this web component.

## Installation

For now, just clone the repo, make sure you have node 6+, and run `npm install` from the project root. Then you can
run `npm start` and a minimal website containing only the webcomponent will be served at `localhost:3333`. Any changes
you make to `/src` will be automatically shown in the browser.

## Properties

| Property             | Attribute                | Description                                                                                              | Type            | Default     |
|----------------------|--------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|-------------|
| `alignment`          | `alignment`              | The alignment as SMIL                                                                                    | `string`        | `undefined` |
| `audio`              | `audio`                  | The audio file                                                                                           | `string`        | `undefined` |
| `cssUrl`             | `css-url`                | Optional custom Stylesheet to override defaults                                                          | `string`        | `undefined` |
| `language`           | `language`               | Language  of the interface. In 639-3 code Options are - "eng" for English - "fra" for French             | `"eng" \        | "fra"`      | `'eng'`        |
| `pageScrolling`      | `page-scrolling`         | Toggles the page scrolling from horizontal to vertical. Defaults to horizontal                           | `"horizontal" \ | "vertical"` | `"horizontal"` |
| `svgOverlay`         | `svg-overlay`            | Overlay This is an SVG overlay to place over the progress bar                                            | `string`        | `undefined` |
| `text`               | `text`                   | The text as TEI                                                                                          | `string`        | `undefined` |
| `theme`              | `theme`                  | Theme to use: ['light', 'dark'] defaults to 'dark'                                                       | `string`        | `'light'`   |
| `useAssetsFolder`    | `use-assets-folder`      | Toggle the use of assets folder for resolving image urls. Defaults to 'true' for backwards compatibility | `boolean`       | `true`      |
| `scrollBehavior`     | `scroll-behavior`        | Toggle the use of animation during scrolling. Defaults to 'smooth' for backwards compatibility           | `"auto  \       | "smooth"`   | `smooth`    |
| `autoPauseEndOfPage` | `auto-pause-end-of-page` | Toggle the auto pause at the end of each page. Defaults to 'false' for backwards compatibility           | `boolean`       | `false`     |
| `timeoutAtEndOfPage` | `timeout-at-end-of-page` | Set a default pause between each page. Defaults to '0' for backwards compatibility                       | `number`        | `0`         |


#### IMAGES

You have three options:

* put images in "assets/" and provide relative link
* provide a full path
* put it in a custom relative folder and make sure to add `use-assets-folder="false"` attribute to the read-long
  component

Note that images are normally inserted in a read-along by specifying them in the `config.json` file provided to `readalongs align`, which will then attempt to generate and populate the assets folder automatically.
See the [readalongs CLI user guide](https://readalong-studio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cli-guide.html#adding-titles-images-and-do-not-align-segments-via-the-config-json-file) for details.

## Test with your site

You can either modify the `/src/index.html` or after running `npm start` you can copy out the `www/build` folder and add
the following script import in your own `index.html` page:

```html 
  <script type="module" src="https://unpkg.com/@roedoejet/readalong@^0.1.6/dist/read-along/read-along.esm.js"></script>
  <script nomodule src="https://unpkg.com/@roedoejet/readalong@^0.1.6/dist/read-along/read-along.js"></script>
```

Then, you can add as many read-along components to your page as you like simply by adding `<read-along></read-along>`
elements with arguments for where to find your text, alignments and audio file. These files can be generated
using _________ service located here: ____________.

```html
<read-along text="assets/s2.xml" alignment="assets/s2.smil" audio="assets/s2.wav"
            css-url="assets/custom.css" use-assets-folder="true"></read-along>
```

## Loading as a single file

By default, Stencil (the tool used to build this web component) uses lazy loading. However, some use cases for this web component might involve running the component as a single file, without access to the internet. A single-file script of this web component is therefore made available at https://unpkg.com/@roedoejet/readalong@^0.1.6/dist/bundle.js although we recommend using the default imports using the unpkg content delivery network (cdn) described above.

## Theming

There are two themes out-of-the-box: `light` and `dark`. You set them as a property on the `<read-along></read-along>`
web component. If you want to add your own theme, it's as easy as adding your colour palette to the `$ui-themes`
variable in `src/components/read-along-component/scss/utilities/_colors.scss`. Note you will have to rebuild the web
component from source to do this, or submit your theme as a pull-request!

```scss
$ui-themes: (
  light: (
    primary: $white,
    secondary: darken($white, 50%),
    accent: darken($white, 60%),
    text: $black,
    text--secondary: $white,
    text--accent: $white,
  ),
  dark: (
    primary: lighten($black, 30%),
    secondary: darken($white, 35%),
    accent: $white,
    text: $white,
    text--secondary: $white,
    text--accent: $black
  )
);
```

## Slots

Slots allow you to add custom html into specific "slots" within the web component. For example, to add an optional
header to the `<read-along></read-along` component, you would write:

```html

<read-along>
  <span slot="read-along-header">Hello World!</span>
</read-along>
```

| Slot                    | Description           | Suggested Element |
| ----------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------- |
| `read-along-header`     | The read along header | `span`              |
| `read-along-subheader`  | Subheader (ie authors)| `span`              |

## Page layout

By default, the pages are two column layout with image on the left and text on the left. You force any page to one
column layout by setting the class of the page to ```one-column-layout-page```

```xml

<div type="page" class="one-column-layout-page">
  ...
</div>
```

The default layout is auto adjust without restrictions. To force a 40-60 split between the image and text use
the ```two-column-layout-page``` class for the page.

```xml

<div type="page" class="two-column-layout-page">
  ...
</div>
```
### Hide page number

You can hide the page number for any page by specifying the class ```hide-page-counter```.

## Assets folder

By defaults the image assets will be resolved to ```.\assets\``` relative to the index.html file. You can
override this behaviour by using this attribute on the component ```use-assets-folder="false"```. The web component will
not longer resolve url to the **assets** folder when this attribute is present.

## CSS customization

You can override the default style of the component. This option is best used anyone does not want to clone this project
and modify only the UI. Use the web inspector of your browser to find the classes you wish to override.

```css
/* change the font size and color of the text */
.sentence__word.theme--light {
  color: #64003c;
  font-size: 1.8rem;
}

/* change the background color of the text being read */
.sentence__word.theme--light.reading {
  background-color: #64003c;
}
```

Here is a list of classes you want to override:

* .sentence__word.theme--light
* .sentence__word.theme--light.reading
* .sentence__text.theme--light
* .sentence__translation
* .sentence
* .paragraph
* .page__container.theme--light (to set page background)

## XML customizations

You can add classes to the xml tags in the text XML file. When coupled with the custom css, it will produce most of the
visual effect you want in your read along. e.g. ``` <s class="sentence__translation ">```

### Built-in translation class

The default css class provided for translations should be added to the XML ```<s>``` tag. Here is a sample:

```xml

<p id="t0b0d1p0">
  <s id="t0b0d1p0s0">
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w0">...</w>
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w1">...</w>
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w2">...</w>
  </s>
  <s id="t0b0d1p0s1" class="sentence__translation">This is a translation</s>
</p>
```

The default style:

```css
     .sentence__translation {
        color: #777;
        font-style: italic;
        font-size: 95%;
      }
```

## Visual alignment

You can force the visual alignment of sentences within a paragraph by adding ``` class="visually_aligned"``` to
the ```<p>``` tag of xml. Here is a sample

```xml

<p id="t0b0d1p0" class="visually_aligned">
  <s id="t0b0d1p0s0">
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w0">...</w>
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w1">...</w>
    <w id="t0b0d1p0s0w2">...</w>
  </s>
  <s id="t0b0d1p0s1" class="sentence__translation ">This is a translation</s>
</p>
```

**MIND THE GAP**:
When you visually align a paragraph please triple check the spacing and punctuation between elements because the visual
alignment is white-space sensitive

**SIDE EFFECT**: This feature disables auto-wrapping of the words in the paragraph

## For developers of the component

We use Cypress (instead of Jest+Puppeteer) to do integration/end-to-end testing.

### How to run the tests

First, start the test servers (yes, plural!), by using this command:

    npm run test-servers

If you are on a Windows machine, the command above will not work if you do not have bash setup.

Run each of the following in a separate command prompt:

    npm run start
    
    npm run serve-test-data

Then you can run test **interactively** using the following command:

    npx cypress open

Or run all tests automatically using this command:

    npx cypress run

### Interactively testing your local copy

If you want to use your local copy of the Web Component instead of the version published at unpkg, change the two `script` lines in your HTML and set the module URL to your localhost.
See for example the unit testing file [test-data/ej-fra/index.html](test-data/ej-fra/index.html), which assumes this Stencil component is being served on port 3333, the default when running locally.
