src/components/read-along-component/readme.md, before:

# my-component



<!-- Auto Generated Below -->


## Properties

| Property         | Attribute          | Description                                                                                            | Type      | Default     |
| ---------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- | ----------- |
| `alignment`      | `alignment`        | The alignment as SMIL                                                                                  | `string`  | `undefined` |
| `audio`          | `audio`            | The audio file                                                                                         | `string`  | `undefined` |
| `css_url`        | `css_url`          | Optional custom Stylesheet to override defaults                                                        | `string`  | `undefined` |
| `language`       | `language`         | Language                                                                                               | `string`  | `'eng'`     |
| `svg_overlay`    | `svg_overlay`      | Overlay This is an SVG overlay to place over the progress bar                                          | `string`  | `undefined` |
| `text`           | `text`             | The text as TEI                                                                                        | `string`  | `undefined` |
| `theme`          | `theme`            | Theme to use: ['light', 'dark'] defaults to 'dark'                                                     | `string`  | `'light'`   |
| `useAssetFolder` | `use-asset-folder` | Toggle the use of assets folder for resolving urls. Defaults to on to maintain backwards compatibility | `boolean` | `true`      |


----------------------------------------------

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*

Commit message:

- added new feature to allow for vertical scrolling (requested by Fineen) - added error handling for assets

src/components/read-along-component/readme.md, after:

# my-component



<!-- Auto Generated Below -->


## Properties

| Property          | Attribute           | Description                                                                                            | Type      | Default     |
| ----------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- | ----------- |
| `alignment`       | `alignment`         | The alignment as SMIL                                                                                  | `string`  | `undefined` |
| `audio`           | `audio`             | The audio file                                                                                         | `string`  | `undefined` |
| `css_url`         | `css_url`           | Optional custom Stylesheet to override defaults                                                        | `string`  | `undefined` |
| `isVerticalPages` | `is-vertical-pages` | Toggles the page scrolling from horizontal to vertical. Defaults to off                                | `boolean` | `false`     |
| `language`        | `language`          | Language                                                                                               | `string`  | `'eng'`     |
| `svg_overlay`     | `svg_overlay`       | Overlay This is an SVG overlay to place over the progress bar                                          | `string`  | `undefined` |
| `text`            | `text`              | The text as TEI                                                                                        | `string`  | `undefined` |
| `theme`           | `theme`             | Theme to use: ['light', 'dark'] defaults to 'dark'                                                     | `string`  | `'light'`   |
| `useAssetFolder`  | `use-asset-folder`  | Toggle the use of assets folder for resolving urls. Defaults to on to maintain backwards compatibility | `boolean` | `true`      |


----------------------------------------------

*Built with [StencilJS](https://stenciljs.com/)*
